# Note taker chrome extension

A small chrome extension that allows users to add, create, update and delete notes, group them in categories. The notes are saved in Chrome's local storage so they can be accesed at any time.

#### Video Demo:  <URL HERE>

#### Description:

Considering i spend quite a bit of time online reading and studying i decided to make a small extension that would allow me to grab text from websites and group them in notes that i can access later on. I decided to make the extension using only JavaScript, HTML and CSS. The largest part of the app was writing in JavaScript and uses ES6 syntax, with ocassional Chrome syntax that is needed for the the extension to function. This was the first extension i ever made and Chrome's docs were quite helpful and they answered pretty much every question i had. 

The way the extension works is that notes will be saved to chrome's local storage, which persists the notes even if Chrome is closed. In order to do this i decided to store the data in an empty array so that i could manipulate it. The user can add notes (or create categories) through the context menu, but only if the text is selected. Each note will be added to this empty array and added to the storage. One of the harder parts was figuring out how to deal with the popup. The popup is a single HTML file and only a single page can be displayed at all times. HTML will only re-render if the popup is reloaded, meaning if the extension icon is clicked, so in order to get around that i am forcing the reload manualy so that the popup is dynamic and the content is updated as the user navigates the application. One example of this is deletion of notes, when a note is deleted HTML will be reloaded as soon as the delete button is clicked and new elements will be rendered depending on what our initial array contains.

One of the problems with this was that if the user was in a specific category, reloading the popup would always display the first category that is in the array. In order to avoid this i added series of boolean values to my objects that will be true or false depending on what user wants to see. For example only one category can be active at a time, and the notes will be added to that active category, so as soon as the user selects a category it will be tagged as active and new value will be saved in the local storage. Even if the user closes the popup the same category will be displayed on the next render. Another example of this is adding custom notes, the user can create their own notes and as soon as the button is clicked the category property called customNote will be set to active and that will render a text area where user can input the note. If the user wants to rename a category, or maybe edit a specific note, that notes's specific value will be set to true or false and correct HTML elements will be rendered so that user can input new information.

```background.js``` is responsible for initial adding of notes from the users's active tab, for example all of the events that are connected with context menu. ```popup.js``` is used for rendering HTML elements depending which of the boolean values are true or false. I decided to group all of the events into a separate file called ```event.js``` and this is where most of the logic of the application is. One of the problems i encountered is that ```background.js``` works separately from other JavaScript files so in order to make the files "communicate" with each other, i'm using Chrome extension messages. Each time an event in event.js is fired off or an element is created in ```popup.js``` a message will be sent to ```background.js``` using ```chrome.runtime.sendMessage()``` method, and the new and updated array will be sent back and stored in local storage. ```manifest.json``` is required as per Chrome's docs and this is where permissions and details about the extension live. ```options.js``` controls the options page, which is optional, no pun intended, but it gives some extra information to the user.

